# Table of Contents
1. [PURPOSES](#PURPOSES)
2. [CONTENT](#CONTENT)
3. [REFERENCES](#REFERENCES)
4. [BRAIN STORMING](#BRAIN-STORMING)

## PURPOSES

Did you know that ASP and ASP.Net are different ?.

Then in this document, I'll tell you the different between:

* ASP (*)
* ASP .NET

(*) *Active Server Pages (ASP), later known as Classic ASP or ASP Classic*

About ASP .NET, Microsoft has released some programming models you can use to create ASP.NET web applications, they are:

* ASP .NET Web Forms
* ASP .NET MVC
* ASP .NET WEB API 


## CONTENT

### Difference between ASP vs ASP .NET

| # |                ASP              |                 ASP .NET              |
| - | ------------------------------------| --------------------------------- |
| 1 | First release 1996 | Firt release 2002 |
| 2 | Do not require .NET Framework | Rely on .NET Framework |
| 3 | Is scripting languate | Is an application Framework |
| 4 | Use VBScript,JScript and PerlScript | Use any programming languages communicating with. NET (C#, J#, VB.NET,..) |


ASP .NET has some programming models you can use to create ASP.NET web applications, including: ASP .NET Web Forms, ASP .NET MVC, ASP .NET WEB API

### **ASP .NET Web Forms**
ASP.NET Web Forms is a part of the ASP.NET web application framework and is included with Visual Studio when It was first release in 2002.

`Web Forms` hiding the complexity of Web Development about HTML/CSS/Javascript. 
It provides larger control toolbox that a web application need.

It uses view state or server-based forms. 

The main advantage is `RAD (Radpid Application Development)`.
I often call  Web Forms is `Windows Forms over Web`, You can build your Web application without having much knowledge about HTML/Javascript.

This model is easy for developers those coming from Winform development background.

**The Web Forms-based framework offers the following advantages:**

* It supports an event model that preserves state over HTTP, which benefits line-of-business Web application development. The Web Forms-based application provides dozens of events that are supported in hundreds of server controls.
* It uses a Page Controller pattern that adds functionality to individual pages. For more information, see Page Controller on the MSDN Web site.
* It uses view state or server-based forms, which can make managing state information easier.
* It works well for small teams of Web developers and designers who want to take advantage of the large number of components available for rapid application development.
* In general, it is less complex for application development, because the components (the Page class, controls, and so on) are tightly integrated and usually require less code than the MVC model.



### **ASP .NET MVC**
ASP .NET MVC was first released in 2009

ASP .NET MVC is a newer programming models (compare to Web Forms) to create ASP .NET web applications.

ASP .NET MVC give you full control over the rendered HTML and integration with JavaScript frameworks easily.

It doen't use view state or server-based forms and following the design of stateless nature of the web.

This model is easy for developers those coming from Web development background or a beginner.


**The ASP.NET MVC framework offers the following advantages:**

* It makes it easier to manage complexity by dividing an application into the model, the view, and the controller.
* It does not use view state or server-based forms. This makes the MVC framework ideal for developers who want full control over the behavior of an application.
* It uses a Front Controller pattern that processes Web application requests through a single controller. This enables you to design an application that supports a rich routing infrastructure. For more information, see Front Controller on the MSDN Web site.
* It provides better support for test-driven development (TDD).
* It works well for Web applications that are supported by large teams of developers and Web designers who need a high degree of control over the application behavior.

### **ASP .NET WEB API**

ASP.NET MVC & ASP .NET WEB API have the same architecture and the same `Core`.  
But they are optimized for their own purposes:
 
* ASP.NET MVC is about building a full `Web Application`
* ASP.NET WEB API is about building a `RESTful Web Service`. You can see that  `ASP.NET WEB API` stateless doen't not support Session/Cookie, and there is no View Engine in ASP.NET WEB API 




## REFERENCES

<table>
    <thead>
        <tr>
            <td>#</td>
            <td>Summary</tdtr>
            <td>Link</td>
        </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
        <tr>
            <td>1</td>
            <td>What is ASP .NET / ASP .NET wiki</td>
            <td>
                <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ASP.NET">
                    https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ASP.NET
                </a>
            </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>2</td>
            <td>What is Active Server Pages (ASP)/ ASP wiki</td>
            <td>
                <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Active_Server_Pages">
                    https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Active_Server_Pages
                </a>
            </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>3</td>
            <td>Introduction to ASP.NET Web Forms, Advantages compare to MVC-Based</td>
            <td>
                <a href="https://www.asp.net/web-forms/what-is-web-forms">
                    https://www.asp.net/web-forms/what-is-web-forms
                </a>
            </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>4</td>
            <td>Biggest advantage to using ASP.Net MVC vs web forms</td>
            <td>
                <a href="http://stackoverflow.com/questions/102558/biggest-advantage-to-using-asp-net-mvc-vs-web-forms">
                    http://stackoverflow.com/questions/102558/biggest-advantage-to-using-asp-net-mvc-vs-web-forms
                </a>
            </td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>


## BRAIN STORMING

1. Do you know that : ASP & ASP .NET are different ?
2. What are the different between ASP .NET Web Forms, ASP .NET Web MVC, ASP .NET Web API ?